WOODRUFF: President Trump faced
dramatically different crowds
as he made his way across
Europe today.
His second overseas trip began
in Poland, before he moved
on to Hamburg, Germany, the
site of the summit of
leaders of the major
industrialized nations.
Special correspondent
Ryan Chilcote reports.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
RYAN CHILCOTE, PBS NEWSHOUR
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
(voice-over): President
Trump kicked off his
second trip to Europe by doing
something he was criticized
for not doing on his first:
offering America's full
commitment to the NATO alliance.
TRUMP: The United States has
demonstrated not merely with
words but with its actions
that we stand firmly
behind Article 5, the
mutual defense commitment.
Words are easy but
actions are what matters.
CHILCOTE: Mr. Trump was
addressing a friendly
crowd of some 15,000
in Warsaw, Poland, some
of the spectators bused
in by the country's
center-right governing party.
To the delight of Poles
concerned about Russia,
their neighbor to the
east, he declared the
West would triumph over
its many adversaries.
TRUMP: The fundamental question
of our time is whether the
West has the will to survive.
I declare today for the
world to hear that the West
will never, ever be broken.
Our values will prevail, our
people will thrive, and our
civilization will triumph.
CHILCOTE: The president, though,
reiterated criticism of some
NATO allies in Western Europe
for not committing more
to defense spending.
Mr. Trump also offered his
most forceful condemnation
yet of Russia, just a
day before his meeting
with President Vladimir Putin.
TRUMP: We urge Russia to cease
its destabilizing activities in
Ukraine and elsewhere and its
support for hostile regimes,
including Syria and Iran, and
to instead join the community
of responsible nations.
CHILCOTE: Hours earlier, at a
press conference with Poland's
president, though, Mr. Trump
skirted questions about Russian
meddling in the 2016 election.
REPORTER: Will you once and for
all, yes or no, definitively
say that Russia interfered
with the 2016 election?
TRUMP: Well, I think it
was Russia and I think
it could've been other
people and other countries.
It could've been a lot
of people interfered.
Nobody really knows, nobody
really knows for sure.
CHILCOTE: Mr. Trump also
cast blame on former
President Barack Obama.
TRUMP: I think what happened is
that he thought Hillary Clinton
was going to win the election
and he said, let's not
do anything about it.
Had he thought the other
way, he would have done
something about it.
CHILCOTE: President Trump
then flew to Hamburg,
Germany for the G20 Summit.
There he met German
Chancellor Angela Merkel.
The two have publicly tussled
on a variety of issues including
trade and climate change.
All the while the "welcome to
hell" protest, its actual title,
was already under way, turning
violent almost immediately.
Thousands of protesters clashed
with police in riot gear who
used water cannons to disperse
crowds.
Others rushed demonstrators,
tackling them to the ground.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
CHILCOTE: President Trump's
most important meeting
is, of course, tomorrow.
That will be his first
ever meeting with the
president of Russia -- Judy.
WOODRUFF: And, Ryan,
you've covered the Kremlin.
How do you think Mr. Putin is
going to react to what President
Trump had to say today about
Russia's interference
in last year's election?
CHILCOTE: Well, look, I don't
think that President Putin
will like those remarks.
At the same time, I think in
a way he will appreciate that
they were made in Poland and
not here at the G20 Summit, not
alongside the Russian president.
You know, they're well
aware that President Trump
is optically challenged.
It will be very difficult
for him to say something
pro-Russian at this point.
They feel that, at this point,
it would be very difficult
for him to really achieve much
when it comes to improving the
Russian-American relationship.
They just don't want to
see it get any worse.
So, I think they'll think
that he was sort of speaking
to the crowd, speaking to the
parlor, if you will, and what
really matters is what President
Trump tells them in that
- - or tells President
Putin in that room when
it comes to policy, and
namely what President
Putin is hoping is two
things, that one, President
Trump will perhaps listen
to some of the issues
that he has with the Ukrainian
side, when it comes to
Russia's conflict in Ukraine,
and secondly, President Putin
will be hoping that he can use
Russia's precedence in Syria,
what Russia is doing in Syria
as a bridge to the United
States, find some kind of common
ground, encourage President
Trump to pursue for example
Islamic State in Syria together
with Syria.
That is a whole lot
of challenges but that
has always been the
Russians' big hope that
they can team up with the United
States or at least the lower
the level, the temperature
in the relationship by
working together in Syria.
WOODRUFF: Ryan Chilcote
reporting for us from
Hamburg, thank you.
CHILCOTE: Thank you.
WOODRUFF: And we'll hear more
about President Trump's visit
to Poland and Germany, after
the news summary.